You know, the French, we had
>> we had a little kurfuffle in the early
90s with the French.
>> Oh, yeah.
>> And they were very angry with us
>> about what?
>> Deservedly so. One of our young junior
first tour guys got caught just going
pushing a little too far. So, they
expelled him, they expelled the chief,
and they expelled a whole bunch of
people. And so, for three, four years,
we had a tough time. But the French were
just such dicks about it that we ended
up um getting orders that we weren't
even allowed to transit de Gaul airport.
And that was the only reason I was ever
in France was just to catch a connecting
flight at De Gaul to go here or there
wherever in the Middle East. Uh but a
buddy of mine was I I forget where he
was going somewhere in the Middle East
and he he went no it was in Africa. He
was going to Africa and the only way to
get to Africa was through Paris at the
time. Now you can just go directly to uh
Morocco and then onward from there. But
they took his laptop. He had a he had a
secure laptop. So they're like, "Turn it
on." So he turns it on. Open it up. He's
like, "I'm not going to open it up. I
have a diplomatic passport. I'm on the
diplomatic business of the United
States. This is the the possess the uh
the property rather of the US Department
of State. I'm not opening it up." So
they took it in a back room. He said
they had a railroad spike fastened to a
table and they just slammed it down on
the railroad spike, went all the way
through the laptop and then they pulled
it off and gave him his laptop back. So
headquarters was like, "Okay, nobody can
transit air uh de Gaul airport anymore."
>> Wow.
>> Yeah. They're just jerks about it.
>> I've heard that they are incredibly
talented in
>> They're very talented. When I was
overseas in uh Pakistan, my boss asked
me if I would uh meet with a French
intelligence officer. I said, "Sure." I
was meeting with foreign intelligence
officers almost every day and you just
trade, you know, hey, I heard there's a
safe house over here. I heard, hey, we
they give me al-Qaeda safe house over
there. And we just trade some
information. So, uh,
this French guy calls me and he says,
"Meet me at the corner of, you know, A
and B." I'm like, "Okay, you don't just
want to meet at a restaurant or
something?" "No, no, meet me at this
corner." So, I go to this corner. It's
in a residential neighborhood. I'm like,
"What? Does he live here?" Like, "Why
would he want me to come here?" And I'm
standing on the corner and he comes
peeling down the street, makes a quick
right, reaches over and opens my door,
and he's like, "Get in."
And I said, "Oh, no, no, no, no, no."
[laughter] I said, "I don't work for
you, and you're not using tradecraft on
me." I said, "I parked right over here.
I'll meet you at the Pearl Hotel
restaurant coffee bar. not going to
[__] let you do a
there's a term of art for the for the
kind that kind of a pickup. No, no, no,
no. You're not recruiting me.
[clears throat]
>> Yeah. We're going to have a cup of
coffee and that's it. And then I never
saw them again after the coffee.
>> So, they're tough.
>> Yeah. And they're murderous, too. You
know,
>> they're murderous.
>> Oh, yeah. If you're a member of, for
example, of Greenpeace, they're going to
blow your brains out if you try to, you
know, take over a ship or throw paint on
a ship or whatever. They kill a lot of
Greenpeace activists.
>> The French intelligence does.
>> Yeah.
>> Like not the paramilitary.
>> No, no, no, no, no. They're happy to go
out and kill people. And that's why
that's one of the reasons why we're not
we don't have more of a presence in the
Sahel right now in Africa
>> because it's all French. They were all
French colonies and the French are there
just killing all kinds of al-Qaeda
people. Yeah, sure.
>> Oh, so they're killing al-Qaeda people.
>> Yeah, that's fine. I have no problem,
right?
>> Mhm.
>> So, they're like the French Head squad's
nice. I mentioned in a podcast the other
day that um I was giving a series of
speeches all around the UK at the
beginning of the year and um
[clears throat]
I had five speeches with
my conversant being a a
professor of English literature. I had
five speeches with a uh kind of a belist
actor and then five speeches with a
retired MI6 officer. And um one of the
things he said
unprompted by me was [snorts]
um you know we we really loved working
with you guys until 9/11.
And they said you all became serial
killers after 9/11. And I said, "Yeah,
unfortunately that's true. A lot of guys
just went out to just kill as many
al-Qaeda people as they could find.
Nobody was charged with a crime or I
mean none of the al-Qaeda people were
ever charged with a crime. They were
just taken care of. And then he says,
"Yeah, you and the French, my god, the
French love killing people." And I said,
"That was that was kind of my
understanding as well."
>> It can it it obviously is a slippery
slope because then you start cuz
remember you're the good guy,
>> right?
>> And you're thinking, "I'm the good guy.
God and country. I'm going to protect my
country from the terrible Muslim
terrorists. And you go blowing brains
out and here you end up killing women
and children and taking out the whole
village. And
>> that's the problem. Like I like
>> as a taxpaying citizen that pays into
these organizations, I will admit I
wouldn't have a problem with,
>> you know, very tactical strike killings
of very well
>> clear and present danger.
>> Yes,
>> is the criterion. But when you're
blowing up a [__] wedding
>> cuz maybe two people are there, that's
where I go.
>> Or because there's a tall guy wearing
white and then you blow up the funeral.
>> Yeah.
>> The next day just to make sure you got
everybody.
>> See, that's that's what I'm saying. It
human nature
>> every time. Doesn't matter who you are.
Leads to strange slippery slopes.
>> You hindsight 2020 at every time.
>> That's right.
>> And people die. And then you create
propaganda. Then you become the bad guy.
And then there's situations where
>> there it is.
>> Yeah.
>> Right there.
>> You now you were in
trying to remember your exact timeline
because you were working at Langley. You
were the the chief historian for Saddam
Hussein leading into leading into my
first my first assignment. Yeah. In the
director of intelligence.
>> And then you were still there for a few
years. And then what year again did you
hit the farm?
Oh, I didn't go to the farm until 1997.
>> Okay, that's what I was going to say.
>> I was halfway through my career.
>> And they did they send you to Greece
first?
>> Yes.
>> Okay. When did you get to Greece in 97
as well?
>> 98.
>> Mhm.
>> Okay. All right. So, that kind of takes
away the Cuz what I'm what I'm
interested in is like the French
intelligence
is You're not the first guy to say that.
Like so many people are like, "Yo, look
out for them. They're [__] good." But
like first question, how well do they
get along with MI6? There's always been
a strange rivalry between France and
England. How well did those
intelligence?
>> It extends it extends to the uh to the
organizations themselves. Um
everybody knows by now what the five
eyes countries are. US, UK, Canada,
Australia, New Zealand.
>> We have given each other literally cart
blanch to do anything, to see anything,
to go anywhere. We don't spy on each
other. We literally had people sitting
next to us from other intelligence
services, foreign intelligence services
from those countries. So, that's a very
special relationship and it's even more
important at some place like NSA than it
is at CIA or FBI. Um, but there are no
other countries like that. You know, the
French France is a NATO country. It's in
the European Union. There's close
cooperation. We're good friends, but we
don't give them everything like we do
with the Five Eyes.
So, you weren't on the ground in Europe
till '98.
>> Correct.
>> But when you look at an event like
Princess Diana's death in on August
31st, 1997. It happened in Paris. It
happened in France.
>> Is there any way the French intelligence
doesn't know what happened there? I'm
not saying they did it. I'm just
[clears throat] saying like, do they
they got to know? I would say they
probably do.
>> Yeah.
>> What do you think happened there?
>> You know, I really I really believe it
was a series of of fuckups.
>> The driver was drunk, being chased by
the paparazzi. The paparazzi were overly
aggressive.
One thing led to the other. I don't
remember if she was wearing a seat belt
or not. She had a crushed chest. I think
she wasn't.
>> Um,
yeah. I think it was just a one mistake
after another. It's possible,
>> but I don't think the royal family
assassinated her.
>> I agree.
>> Yeah. I just I never saw the
>> I I never saw that either. And also like
I I don't I don't think Prince now King
Charles is that good of an actor. Like I
mean, you know, that was very
>> No way.
>> When you look at that,
>> obviously they had their differences for
sure, but as a mother of his kids and
everything and there was definitely
>> Mhm. some human [__] going on there.
>> I think so.
>> Believe it or not, I know it's very easy
to like dehumanize the royal family just
because, you know, [__] royal family,
but
>> they are humans. So,
>> yeah,
>> they are.
>> But what's the, you know, we're talking
about nuclear war. If you mentioned the
Indian Pakistan example where maybe that
would just be isolated which you know be
for the best for everyone else but if
there was something where it wasn't
something like that and the US got
involved what is the protocol in a
situation like that? We all see the guy
with the football carrying around the
nuclear codes with with the president.
Obviously the president has the say he
makes the decision and then it's done.
But is this something that that happens
in 60 seconds if it needs to? Yeah, it
is. It's this is a much easier uh
question to answer if if you're asking
about a situation in which the United
States is not directly involved.
>> So, yeah, we've got underground
facilities like there's one um called
Mount Weather that is uh that's on the
Virginia West Virginia line. There's
another one in Colorado where the
president, the vice president, their
families, the cabinet, congressional
leadership, their families can be
whisked away. Uh, everybody else, it's
every man for himself
>> for the rest of us. Yeah.
[clears throat]
>> Yeah. I live three miles from the White
House, so I I don't think I'm going to
make it out. What are you going to do?
>> You won't feel anything.
>> No. No. It'll be fast.
um if there's a threat to the United
States like we
believed there could be on 9/11.
>> Yeah, they'll implement that plan where
>> the nuclear football goes with the
president just in case we have to launch
something, the codes are in there and uh
and he can launch from Mount Weather or
from Colorado, wherever he happens to
be. Air Force One just flying in circles
someplace.
>> The thing that I wonder in the event of
like mass nuclear strikes around the
world happening is if the story of
society completely breaks down and none
of this stuff happens. Meaning
>> right
>> it starts and there's such chaos that
people are like there is no president
including the people around him I'm like
[__] you. Who are you?
>> You have to expect that that would be a
real possibility.
Yeah, I I would think so. I mean, look,
we've all we've all seen these
post-apocalyptic
movies or read the books. What was the
uh the Irish uh the the long road? The
something road. The road. That's what it
was called. The [clears throat] road.
Yeah. There's been a nuclear conflict.
It's every man for himself. And it's
just a story of this man and his son
just walking down this road. You don't
know where it goes, where they came
from. Is that what it is? The road.
>> Cormarmac.
>> Cormarmac McCarthy. That's right. Um,
they stumble on an underground bunker
and they find a bunch of canned soup
>> and then the dad dies and then the kid
just keeps walking. That's how the book
ends.
>> Huh.
>> Yeah.
>> Very Irish.
>> Yeah. Yeah. It's like the good guy
always loses and the moral of the story
is there's no hope for anybody.
[laughter]
>> Irish.
>> We got a pub right down the street if
you
>> There you go.
>> Want to go live that out?
>> Yeah. I I I I hate that, like I said
earlier, I hate that we even have to
think about that.
>> Yeah.
>> But it does feel like, you know, you
look at these different conflicts around
the world, including the ones people
don't talk about, by the way.
>> Do you ever see the episode of the
original Star Trek where No, where Kirk
and Spock, they beam down to this planet
and this planet, the planet's leaders
are yelling because the next door
planet, they're having a war with them.
And there's this announcement that
everybody in group A has to go to the
incinerator, right? So you go to the
incinerator and you get incinerated. And
Kirk is like, "Whoa, what's going on
here?" And they said, "Oh, we came up
with this uh treaty with the next door
planet that since we hate each other,
we're always fighting wars. There's no
sense in blowing up all the buildings."
So we have computer models that tell us
how many people would have died if we
launch you know XYZ
uh weapon and so then we just summon
that number of people to the incinerator
and then they get incinerated so at
least we don't mess up our our our
planets
and he's like no that's not a good idea
[laughter] you have to negotiate peace
and then he of course he ends up
negotiating peace
but it's like we're headed there this
This is all predicted in 1968.
>> Yeah. Art following life following art.
>> Something I think about a lot. It does h
it's just human nature like that
imagination comes from something that's
based in reality of how we think.
>> Yes.
>> You know.
>> Exactly right.
>> I was talking with someone recently. I I
think it was Mike Rland about like
seeing the Nolan Batman series recently.
I hadn't watched it in years.
>> But the things that Christopher Nolan in
a [__] superhero series, it's like
supposed to be very fake and not of this
world.
>> The the pulse that he had his finger on
>> with society. Think about the years he
filmed those movies, 04, 07, and 2011.
They came out in '05, '08, and 2012. the
themes, elites versus the everyman,
social chaos, people out for themselves,
Gotham falling, falling from the inside.
>> Tell me that you've seen Soilent Green.
>> Soilent Green. No,
>> Soilent Green is People.
>> Soilent Green is People. So, Soilent
Green
>> came out in the early 1970s. It's one of
the great
>> science fiction films of all time.
>> Um, stars Charlton H. Oh, I love
Charlton.
>> He's a cop in the megalopouloolis.
We've had such a an explosion in
population that from Boston to DC, it's
just all one giant city. It's just all
connected. So, he's a cop in what used
to be called Philadelphia.
And
eggs are 100 bucks a piece. A jar of
jelly is 150 bucks. There's one tree
left in New York City and they had to
build a fort around it so it could be
protected. It was the only tree that's
left on the east coast. And um like I
say, he's a cop and he lives with this
old man who uh was a professor,
so nobody can afford to eat. So the
government provides these little
nutritional chips. There's Soylent
Green, which is colored green, soilent
red, soilent yellow, and it's like a
$1.98 a pound. So that's what everybody
eats, what everybody lives lives on. In
the meantime, they're
are such huge riots of hungry people
that they have these big earth movers
that just go scoop people up during
demonstrations and it it throws them
into the back of a dump truck and then
they just disappear. You don't know what
happened to them. So Charlton H
um he's barely able to make a living at
least you know he's got soil and green
he can eat and the professor decides
he's 70 years old he's sick they have
these suicide centers that you can just
go
>> you lay in a bed and um they show you a
film of just nature deer running around
and butterflies and birds tweeting.
You've never seen anything like this
before. So, as they give you the lethal
injection, that's what you get to see.
And there's classical music playing, so
it's all very nice.
He runs to the Charlton Aston runs to
the suicide center to stop his friend
from committing suicide. And he has to
break into the place. He's too late to
save him, but
he follows the trail that they've taken
the body to. They take the body to a
processing center where they're making
Soilent green out of all these people
that are scooping up at the
demonstrations.
And he's as they're arresting him and
beating him, he shouts, "Soilent green
is people."
>> Oh my god.
>> We used to do this thing at the CIA. We
used to do this thing at the CIA just
for fun. Like every every time you have
an operational meeting, you have to
write a very detailed like blowby-blow,
minute-by-minute account of the meeting.
And CIA cables by nature are written
only in capital letters. It's like some
thing from the 50s. They just never
changed it. [snorts] So what people
would do was they would make these
random lowercase letters,
>> but they did it so it would spell out
soilent green as people in the cable. We
would always get such a kick out of it
because it was all it would always make
its way through the system. Nobody would
pay any attention until like the one guy
is reading it and he's like, "Oh, they
did it again." [laughter]
That the scary part about that is
>> I'm going to look forward.
>> It reminds me of it. That kind of story
>> doesn't seem far it seems farfetched for
tomorrow, but it doesn't seem
far-fetched for somewhere in the future.
Well, this um Soilent Green, it's 1973.
I said ' 72. It's 73.
>> Lot of '7s was unbelievable.
>> It is on Amazon Prime right now for
3.99.
>> Okay, I'm definitely watching that.
>> Don't miss it. It's one of the great one
of the greatest science fiction movies.
>> I can't believe I haven't seen that.
>> I'm surprised.
>> I've watched a lot.
>> He did another one at the same time
called The Omega Man
>> where he was the last man on Earth.
there was some kind of pandemic and a
handful of people survived but as like
monsters
>> like uh Walking Dead kind of people
>> like I am Legend almost.
>> In fact, I am Legend was the reboot of
uh the Omega Man. Yes. Yes. Exactly.
>> Yeah. Awesome.
Love Charl H. Met him once on the street
in London. [laughter]
>> Couldn't have been nicer.
Is there [laughter] anyone you don't
know or you haven't bumped into at some
point?
>> I was with my girlfriend. We were
spending junior year abroad and uh and I
took her to see a play called The Cane
Mutiny Court Marshall and it starred
Charlton H. And he was brilliant in this
play. And she says, "Let's go around to
the stage door and see if we can meet
him." I said, "No, that's it's such a
cliche. No, I don't want to bother the
man. He's not going to want to be
bothered after working for two hours on
stage like that." She's like, "Please, I
love Charlton." So we ran around back
and it was I don't know half a dozen
other people back there and he came out
and could not have been any nicer, more
cordial, just a a lovely guy.
>> [__] Moses right there.
>> I know, right? That's Moses. And that
voice like who in America doesn't know
that voice?
>> Oh yeah.
>> Yeah. Pretty cool.
>> Yeah. Again, can't believe I I have
watched a [__] ton of movies from the
70s. The 70s was an unbsole.
>> Oh yes. My kids even got me a a coffee
table book called
>> called The Stewartist is Flying the
Plane: Movies of the 1970s.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. That's loved it.
>> It's It's awesome stuff. Real quick,
John, I just got to use the bathroom, of
course.
>> So, we'll be right back.
>> All right, we're back. I haven't gotten
your thoughts on your very good friend
John Brennan now being in the crosshairs
of
>> He is, that's the way to say it. He's in
the crosshairs of the Trump Justice
Department. A couple things I've noticed
about John Brennan over the last couple
of weeks. So, he was challenged at
George Mason University in Arlington,
Virginia by a Republican congressional
candidate who I had never heard of and
who didn't come close to winning
anything. But the guy legitimately
challenged him over, you know, his role
in the memo on a couple things. the the
memo on the Hunter Biden laptop or the
letter I guess it is and um and on the
CIA's analysis that Russia was behind
the Trump election
in the video that was shared widely on
Twitter.
Brennan actually pokes the guy in the
chest several times. Besides that being
assault,
that was the first time in the 35 years
that I've known John Brennan that I ever
saw him lose his composure
>> ever.
>> It's getting to him.
>> It's getting to him. He went on MSNBC
that night
looking exhausted
and old beyond his years.
And he disingenuously said, "I don't
know why they're doing this to me. I
don't understand. I didn't do anything
wrong. I mean, even by MSNBC standards,
it was not believable or credible.
And then just a few days later,
somebody some reporter shouted a
question at him. It wasn't a reporter.
It was in the metro. It was a guy who
may have been a reporter now in
retrospect. Anyway, whoever it was, it
was a guy in the metro and Brennan like
went after him. went up to him with his
with his finger and raised voice. A
buddy of mine called who's an attorney
and said, "What do you make of, you
know, the John Brennan of the last
couple of weeks?" And I said, "He's
scared."
>> Yeah,
>> that's what this is. He's scared because
they're going to find something to
charge him with. And not only
will they charge him, they have moved
the case to the southern district of
Florida. Now remember, you have to
charge the case in the federal district
where the crime was allegedly committed.
>> But what they did, I'll give you an
example. In the case of Jeffrey
Sterling, the CIA whistleblower,
>> um they said that he had leaked
classified information
to James Ryzen of the New York Times.
Ryzen then wrote a book. A CIA secretary
bought the book in Virginia, so charged
him in Virginia. Well, Jeffrey lived in
St. Louis. Ryzen worked in Bethesda,
Maryland, and the New York Times is in
New York. They charged in Virginia. So,
they play these little games all the
time,
>> right?
>> Well, guess what? The game can be
flipped.
And so
the US attorney for the Eastern District
of Virginia, whom Trump just fired
recently, said, "Oh, I I'm not seeing a
crime. I'm not seeing a case. The the
investigation's not going anywhere.
We're going to drop it." Okay, you're
fired and we're transferring the case to
Florida because all you have to do is
say, "Yeah, John Brennan coordinated
that Hunter Biden laptop memo. I was in
Miami when I read the memo on the MSNBC
website. So, it's that easy.
>> It's that easy. But they never think
about it coming back and biting them in
the ass.
>> And that's that's the thing, John. Like,
I think it's well documented long before
I ever knew you. like looking at John
Brennan's career and the kinds of things
he did to say nothing of the stuff that
you've [snorts] illuminated for many of
us since then there there's no doubt in
my mind that he's not a good guy and
that he has done a lot of things that
could absolutely be taken into court and
have a case made against it and the
>> anger at some of the things that he's
done of course makes me want that to
happen. Mhm.
>> What I worry about is all the cases that
I think I righteously criticized that
they were using with lawfare to make
against Trump and people around him for
years there strictly because they didn't
like him.
>> I now have to be consistent in my
criticism of the lawfare because it
feels like we have now
>> the pendulum is swinging.
>> The pendulum is swung and we are setting
dangerous precedents of political
retribution. So much so that you have
guys like Steve Bannon Yeah.
>> coming out and saying to people, if we
don't win in 2028, people in this room
are going to prison. And this is the
same guy who's trying to go on there and
talk about doing a third term for Trump,
which is like against the whole [__]
constitution.
>> Can't do it.
I want to
I want to read to you just a couple of
sentences
from
former attorney general of the United
States and associate justice of the
Supreme Court, Robert Jackson.
>> He said something that was very famous.
>> Um he was also one of the judges at the
Nuremberg trials. This is like one of
the most important judges we've ever
had,
>> ever. Um, actually, let me find it. But
he said something in um
in a dinner at a dinner event for
attorneys. His [clears throat] speech
was called the federal prosecutor.
And I [clears throat] think I found it.
He said a couple things in this speech.
He said it is not the function of
government to keep the citizen from
falling to error.
>> It is the function of the citizen to
keep the government from falling to
error.
>> This and to me this is the most
important thing he said. With the law
books filled with a great assortment of
crimes, a prosecutor stands a fair
chance of finding at least a technical
violation of some act on the part of
almost anyone.
>> Yes. In such a case, it is not a
question of discovering the commission
of a crime and then looking for the man
who has committed it. It's a question of
picking the man and then searching the
law books or putting investigators to
work to pin some offense on him.
>> Oh, that's the Stalin bar. Show me the
man, I'll show you the crime.
>> And there it is.
>> Oh my god.
>> And here we are 85 years later still
having the same debates.
>> Oh wow.
>> Yeah. Now, let me make that personal for
a minute.
>> You [__] hate that guy.
>> I do.
>> And righteously so. I hate him for you.
John Brennan. He ruined your life. He I
believe committed crimes, by the way, to
to ruin your life. If you look at the
emails with him and Eric Holder and just
some of the stuff he did,
>> it's a guy who runs out and says, "Yeah,
we shouldn't torture people." When he
wrote the [__] torture,
>> he was the godfather of the torture
program. Yeah. [sighs]
[gasps] Is there a part of you that
would just love vengeance there?
>> Oh, yeah. I would love love to see John
Brennan go to prison, even if it was
just for a day or a week, just to be
dragged down into the muck like he did
to me and to Jeffrey Sterling and to Ed
Snowden and so many of the rest of us.
On the other hand,
I believe in Robert Jackson and what he
said
>> and I think that's what makes America
great. Yes, that's what makes us the
greatest country in the world is we're
governed by the rule of law. If he has
legitimately committed crimes, and I
believe he has,
>> he should be prosecuted. If there are
others
who are under investigation
who are subject to prosecutors scouring
the law books looking for a crime. I I
would prefer not to see something like
that happen.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. It just it feels very
scaring me a little bit
>> the the vitriol and anger and it's it's
human. I I asked a friend of mine. I
have a friend at the Justice Department
who's not working on the Brennan case,
but who, you know, has friends and
colleagues who are. And I said I said,
"Why hasn't Brennan been charged yet? I
mean, they charged Comey with some silly
crime that's probably going to get
thrown out. Why haven't they charged
Brennan?" And he said, "Um, cuz they
want to get that one right."
>> Mhm. [clears throat]
Yeah.
They have an interesting
perspective on Brennan. You know, most
federal crimes have a five-year statute
of limitations. Most
um what we've heard Brennan would be
charged with
has either a 5-year or a one-year
statute of limitations. I they're
talking about contempt of Congress. Big
deal. The federal sentencing guideline
calls for no prison time,
>> right? So, who cares if he if he was in
contempt of Congress? I don't care. Um,
lying to Congress. He probably has
crossed the statute of limitations. They
probably can't charge him. But what
their idea is is that the Hunter Biden
laptop memo, the Russia NIE, the Russia
analysis was all part of an ongoing
conspiracy
to deny American voters
their dulyeleed
president.
So, the statute of limitations keeps
restarting itself every day so long as
this this uh conspiracy continues. And
honestly, I think they've got him on
that. I That's the thing. I think they
might, too. And this is where this is
where it gets weird for me
>> because no man's above the law, right?
And it should it should be.
>> We sent a vice president of the United
States to prison.
>> Yeah, that was Spiro.
>> Spiro Agno, right? They they got the
Greek guy.
>> Yeah, but he wasn't Orthodox, so it
doesn't count.
>> Okay. All right.
>> Yeah.
>> But like I look at that and I go,
>> is the slippery slope of letting a man
like John Brennan be above the law
>> worse than the slippery slope,
>> right,
>> of the precedents that we are setting
across the board right now.
>> And it's almost like, and people at home
don't want to hear this. I don't want to
hear this either, especially when it
comes to a guy like John Brennan. But
it's almost like
somebody here, we used this example for
something else earlier, but someone here
has to be the Martin Luther King and
just be like,
>> we we're bigger than this.
>> We're not doing this because it's
making, you know, we're othering each
other in this country. I I
>> see. And that's exactly why Joe Biden
should have pardoned Donald Trump.
So many people believed he that's what
he was going to do. Just like Gerald
Ford pardoned Richard Nixon for the for
the betterment of the country. Yes.
>> Bring the American people back together
again. Joe Biden should have pardoned
all of those Republicans.
>> I agree.
>> And he didn't.
>> I agree. I agree with you really very
much on this issue that at the end of
the day.
What's more important is the the
strength of the country and the unity of
the country.
It was a mistake
to charge Donald Trump with 34 felonies
for not filling out a freaking form for
the, you know, state business commission
or whatever the heck it was. That was
dumb.
Uh, it was a mistake to charge him. I
don't even remember what the crime was
alleged in Georgia. What was that? Oh,
he called the sec Georgia secretary of
state and said, "Find the votes." Okay.
He was excitable that day. It was the
election. That that's that's not a
crime. That's just a guy having a bad
day. [laughter]
>> Um,
Comey, I understand they hate Comey.
Comey is an idiot, frankly, for being as
smart as he is. He's really stupid at
the same time.
>> Yeah. like to take a picture of the
shells 8647. What the [__] are you
thinking, you [__]
>> Brennan, however, is different in my
mind. I believe Brennan was trying to
enact a coup. I really believe it.
I think there's evidence that, you know,
even if even if you wanted to dress it
up and call it like a shadow coup or
something like that, however you want to
say it,
>> when you look at all the things that
were disproven that were happening on
his watch.
>> Yeah.
>> One plus one plus one plus one plus one.
It's
>> seriously. And look at it this way, too.
There were a lot of bad guys at the CIA
at the time that I was there in those
circles, right? I mean, we can say
terrible things about George Tennant and
John McLaclin and Mike Morurell and Jose
Rodriguez and Rick Praau and a lot of
people. We can say a lot. There were a
lot of crimes that were committed in the
name of national security. Brennan's
different. Brennan plotted against an
elected president of the United States
and he tried to use this, you know, the
intelligence community and this lawfare
against him and we can't risk that
happening again. That that is
when you put it like that, it's it's
about as sinister as it gets.
>> Yeah. Now, now here's the thing, John. I
think about this a lot.
We've been the power in the world for a
long time.
We have always had people in different
parts of power be it government,
bureaucracy,
corporate which you know one feeds the
other.
>> There's a lot of crossover
>> elites etc. where there are some awful
people and people who do corrupt things
people who get away with it sometimes
because the issue becomes bigger than
the person and they're connected
[clears throat] enough so we slight we
swipe it under sweep it under the rug.
But I get this strange feeling
that there is this deliberate
movement now
to paint everything that America has
ever done
>> as evil. It's all bad. Every single
[__]
>> I hear that a lot. So, I say this to a
guy who was legitimately [__] over by
the United States government and the
worst types of people in it, who knows
where evil happens and knows that we're
not perfect and knows we've done evil
[__] around the world for sure. You
know, do you have a problem with with
that narrative? Oh my god, yes. You
know, I I I go to bed at night watching
Tik Tok videos. I'll watch a hundred of
them before I finally fall asleep. And
you know, they lead me to mostly First
Amendment auditors who I just love. I I
just love them. Uh and and um
conservative um YouTubers who will go
out on the street and say, you know,
what's the best country in the world?
And you know, do you believe the United
States is the best country in the world?
And they say, oh, you know, I would like
to live in Denmark or
this is the best country on earth.
Period. I've been to 72 countries. I'm
going to add another five more by the
end of next year. This is the best
country on earth. Of course, we have
problems because we're human. But but
the founding fathers gave us a system
that is
perfect for
resolving those problems, right? The
three co-equal branches of government.
It's a little a skew right now, but it's
going to return to where uh where it
should be. It always does.
>> You think so?
>> I do. It always has through history.
>> Um and it it will again,
>> but um
>> what has to happen for it to return
there?
>> Congress needs to find where what
happened to its ball sack?
>> It vanished
>> once upon a time.
>> I remember Jimmy Carter complaining. I
was a kid. I was in high school. Jimmy
Carter complaining that uh he couldn't
get anything done because Congress
wouldn't do what he what he told him to
do and the Democrats controlled both
houses of Congress and they were like,
"We don't work for you.
>> Co-equal branches of government." Well,
we've forgotten that, right?
>> And so the Democrats are in lock step
with Joe Biden. The Republicans are in
lock step with Donald Trump. That's not
the way it's supposed to be. Yes, work
together. But look look at the 80s under
the Reagan uh presidency. Uh the
Democrats controlled the House, the
Republicans controlled the Senate for
the first four years or six years of the
either four or six, I can't remember
anymore, of the uh Reagan presidency,
but the speaker of the house was a
Massachusetts liberal named Tip O'Neal.
>> And what happened? The president would
invite him over for breakfast and they
would sit and hash things out because
they were both gentlemen. And that's how
you got business done in Washington.
>> Let's make a deal.
>> Exactly. Everything is open to
negotiation. Everything.
So, let's negotiate.
>> And you think we can get back to that?
>> I do. I think we can get back to that.
>> Mhm. Besides, you know, the broad
general point, which is appreciated if
Congress has to find their balls again.
>> Yeah.
>> They're all bums.
>> Yeah. So, how do you flush out the
attitudes that have formed on both sides
within Congress and and Senate at this
point where they don't want to do that?
>> I think that we need to elect more
independent thinkers. Listen, I made
fun, for example, I made awful fun of
Marjorie Taylor Green when she was first
elected. You know, the Jewish space
lasers and cheating on her husband. And
>> I find myself agreeing with Marjorie
Taylor Green like 80% of the time now.
>> Wow.
>> It's nuts. I haven't changed. I see
Marjorie Taylor Green as having matured
in her role as a member of Congress.
>> Yeah. Like, wait a minute. Wait a
minute. This isn't how Congress is
supposed to work.
>> What do you like about what she says?
Um, I see her as something of a of a
very out there civil libertarian
>> in the in the mold of uh
of um
Tom Massie, Thomas Massie, let's say.
She's not as smart as Thomas Massie, of
course, but they take a lot of similar
positions like uh Rand Paul is another
example. Bernie Sanders on the on the
Democratic side is another one, but I
think we need more people like that.
There's a guy who's been running in the
Democratic primary against Nancy Pelosi
for years. I met him in like 2016. I
don't remember his name. It's an Indian
name and I I just don't recall what it
is. The guy's an attorney. He's very
smart, very bright guy. He's an
activist.
We need for him to run against people
like Nancy Pelosi. I I think my lucky
star is that Nancy Pelissi is not
running for re-election. Of course,
she's so young at 82, right?
>> That's the guy. That's the guy. I met
him at the uh San Francisco Film
Festival when we we stopped and chatted.
I had never heard of him before.
>> How do you say that name? I just
butchered that.
>> Chakraarti.
>> Chakraarti. I've got a friend um he's an
originally Indian naturalized American,
Bert Thacker. Shout out to Bert Thacker.
>> Shout out Bert.
>> Bert um
[snorts] Bert's a two-time Jeopardy
champion. Uh number one. Number two, he
is a former Republican congressional
candidate in Southern California, moved
to Texas, got himself elected to the
city council in the city he went to, and
is already planning his congressional
campaign.
We need to have 435 people like Bert
Thacker because then we would get stuff
done in this country. Bert cares almost
not at all about party affiliation. He
happens to be a Republican,
>> right?
>> But he just wants to get stuff solved,
>> get things done. I think a big
difference today that's causing a huge
problem which should be like the biggest
benefit ever is the fact that all of us
have a voice behind a keyboard
>> online and we police each other for
thought. Now where does that sound very
familiar from? Online that then forces
its way towards the ballot box and the
people who get elected there who are
from that same world and understand it
or if they're not from that world
understand that they have to live in it.
So, for example, your Nancy Pelosi, you
can't possibly make a deal with Donald
Trump. That won't play well on TikTok.
It won't No, you could. It won't play
well on Instagram. It won't play well on
Twitter. And you're going to be viewed
as a traitor to your people for doing
that. Whereas Nancy Pelosi could have
tied one off, you know, [__] 25 years
ago if Donald Trump were president and,
you know, come up with a deal at a
[__] K Street Steakhouse and [__]
could have actually happened, which is
exactly how Washington used to work.
Yes, you're exactly right. You knew that
if you went to the Oval Room at 9:00 on
on a Tuesday night, the entire Senate
leadership was going to be there having
stakes and trying to figure out what to
do about the budget.
>> Right. at the Trump hotel when it when
there was a Trump hotel in Washington. I
went with friends a couple of times,
more than a couple of times, and we
joked that like, my god, is there a
single member of the Republican House
leadership who's not at the bar right
now? Like literally every single one of
them, but that's how you get stuff done.
>> Yes.
When I was in college,
um it was quite common for members of
Congress to share group houses up on
Capitol Hill. You'd pack six, seven,
eight guys in a in a house because it's
expensive in Washington. You have to
maintain a house in your district,
right? And your family's probably in the
district. You still have to have
somewhere to live in Washington. So, and
they they don't really make any money.
Well, they do now.
>> Great stock pickers.
>> 220. It's like a miracle. Like a
miracle.
>> They're incredible. the crystal ball.
So, um,
so it wasn't unusual to have, you know,
three Dems and three Republicans in a
house or four and four. They'd play
poker on Fridays, they'd go to church
together on Sundays, and then, you know,
they would argue in committee, but
they're all friends and they knew that
at the end of the day, they could
negotiate a deal.
>> And that's just not the case anymore.
>> Yeah. That's why that's where I'm having
trouble seeing how that becomes the case
again.
>> Yeah. because of how people have just
been so, you know, and I in this kind of
job, I see it all the time. You know,
how much people just jump to conclusions
on the minute they hear an opinion they
don't agree with, they're gone.
>> Yeah.
>> They're really not. But they say that.
>> Oh, I get that all the time. Listen, I'm
I'm going to say something that's going
to cause me trouble. But I'm going to
say it anyway. [sighs]
>> I gave an interview to an Indian news
outlet two weeks ago, and I didn't say
anything that I haven't said a thousand
times.
for whatever reason and this is why as a
matter of policy listen I'm serious no
more interviews to any Indian or
Pakistani news outlets ever again okay
John's policy done
>> because they just make [__] up
>> and put it in a banner headline with two
exclamation points and say that the CIA
this CIA officer finally reveals the
truth behind you know like no I told you
my information's 25 years old. Okay. So
I said one thing. I said in a
conventional conflict
India would beat Pakistan
because it has five times the people.
[snorts]
Yeah.
The death threats. I've lost count
[laughter]
of how many death threats I received.
And then the best of all like my my
lawyer is like got to keep a low
profile. Just be aware [laughter]
aware of your surroundings.
>> I know, right?
>> John's like, "Fuck you." [laughter]
>> So, I get a letter from the president of
Imran Khan's political party, right?
Whatever it's called, the Pakistan
whatever party.
>> You got [clears throat] a letter,
>> a letter in the mail. you and he says
that they condemn in uh in the strongest
possible terms what I said to the
Indians and they demand an immediate
apology to his excellency the former
prime minister to the members of the
party and to the people of Pakistan
>> for giving an opinion.
>> Yeah. So my lawyer is like just throw it
away just throw [laughter] it away. So I
didn't throw it away. I sent him an
email and I said,
>> "Oh my god, in regards to your demand
for an apology, I wiped my ass with your
demands for an apology." [laughter]
And I hit send
and that's how I left it and I haven't
heard back from them.
So my my my lawyer is like, "Well, that
speaking offer at the uh Pakistani
military academy, yeah, you're not going
to be doing that." And I said, "No, no,
I'll never go back ever again." But they
don't they don't treat me with with
respect anyway.
>> You could have just said, "Explain Bin
Laden."
>> Yeah.
>> Exactly.
>> I mean, yeah. Like it would appear
mathematically India would
>> Yeah.
>> would body bag Pakistan. No, you know,
no Pakistan. No disrespect. It's just,
you know,
>> and you know why they hate each other so
much? Because they're exactly alike.
That's why. It used to be one country,
>> right? India, Pakistan and Bangladesh
was one country called called the Indian
subcontinent, right? And then in 1947,
India and Pakistan had a brutal bloody
war and they split off.
>> So all the Muslims went west to Pakistan
and all the Hindus went east to uh to
India. But now there are more Muslims
than there are you know pretty much
anybody else in they have a higher birth
rate in India. But anyway, and then by
1971, I think it was, Bangladesh is
like, "Screw this. They're part of
Pakistan." They were called East
Pakistan. And they're like, "Pakistan's
all the way over there. We disagree with
everything. So, we're going to be
independent, too." And they created
Bangladesh.
>> Okay. Well, India has five times more
people than Pakistan does. And the
Bangladeshies like the Indians, and the
Afghans like the Indians and hate the
Pakistanis. So if you're Pakistan and
you're outmanned and surrounded by your
enemies, you going to win that fight?
>> Yeah. They don't seem to have like a lot
of friends.
>> No.
>> Right.
>> No. Cuz they write threatening letters
and expect immediate action.
>> I love [laughter] that they wanted a
retraction.
>> Yeah. A retraction.
>> Last time I was in your country, I land
I ran the greatest targeting mission in
modern history. Don't [__] with me.
>> That's right. And he wants a he he
neglected to say in the letter that his
prime minister is in prison right now.
>> Oh, he's in prison. Why is he in prison?
>> Oh, for all kinds of reasons. Treason
and
>> he's still prime minister.
>> No, no, they deposed him.
>> So, he's not running it from the prison
cell.
>> No. Well, he's trying he's running the
party from his prison cell. Got it. They
got a new prime minister.
>> Ah, it's so awkward.
>> Yeah. And he wants an apology from me.
Now I think you should apologize to all
of the people of Pakistan for being a
you know corrupt
>> typical corrupt leader in Pakistan.
They're all corrupt. Listen, one time I
was with uh with a colleague, a more
senior colleague. We went to see Benazir
Bhau. We went to see Benazir Bhau. She
was in exile in Dubai [snorts] and um
her husband was this guy Zardari, I
think his first name is Hussein,
something like that. And uh
so we're at the uh we're at her
beachfront mansion, her $10 million
beachfront mansion in Dubai. This is a
woman who was making, you know, 60 grand
a year as prime minister.
>> Hey, listen. Good investor,
>> right?
So we hear a car pulling up outside and
she said something off-handedly that has
just been ingrained in my mind ever
since. She says, "So [snorts] help me
God. If he's pulling up in another
Bentley, I'm going to lose my mind."
[laughter]
And my boss and I kind of look at each
other like,
"Corrupt a little bit?"
>> Yeah.
>> You make 60 grand a year. How many
Bentleys do you have with your $10
million beachfront house in Dubai? And
then she went back, became prime
minister again, got shot in the head.
Now he's the president of Pakistan. her
husband, her corrupt husband.
>> Funny how the world works.
>> Yeah.
>> You know, that is the thing. The
patterns are the same everywhere in
different different societies. Human
nature.
>> It's human nature. You get people that
get into powerful positions that have
connections to be able to do things that
the average person can't.
>> Whether it's legal or not, they do it.
>> It's you're 100% it's it is human
nature. And like now in the internet
era, we can just see it more right in
front.
>> I think you're exactly right about that.
Yeah, the the information is much more
re readily available for us. It's just
there almost instantaneously.
How much in your career at CIA did you
either see directly or get an inkling or
a vibe
of
say elite forces that were not a part of
CIA playing roles or having say or
having some sort of influence over
decisions that the agency was making.
>> I didn't.
>> Never.
>> No. It was always the other way around.
After 911, we were short on um special
forces guys. You know, we had this thing
called the special activities division
and then within the counterterrorism
center, there was the special activities
group. Um but we needed
operators like not the ones like John
that were going to, you know, whine and
dine the guy and recruit him. Exactly.
And so we just borrowed people from the
special forces. So all of a sudden, I
mean, like in in the matter of a week or
two after 911,
>> we've got SEALs, we have Delta, we have
Rangers, we have all these people,
>> and they're all
they're not what you might imagine.
They're not they're not these buff, you
know, hemen that stepped out of a
magazine. They had five days beard,
little bit of a gut. they could do some
heavy drinking and then get up and run
five miles, which I never understood.
Um, but they they [clears throat] knew
exactly what the mission was and by God,
they were happy to get on a plane, jump
out the back of it, and then do the
mission and then figure out how to
rescue them later.
>> I've had a couple of those guys sitting
here.
>> Yeah, they're they're very very tough
guys talking about. Yeah,
>> they're built a little different.
>> Yeah, they are. I've never understood
how
I've never understood how guys like that
can negotiate
the
psychological weight of what comes with
their jobs. It is a the fact that you
haven't figured that out is not
reassuring because I sit here and wonder
the same thing sometimes. There is the
only thing I can come up with is there's
just a different gene. I think that's
it. I've got two friends. One was a
medic um on Seal Team 2. He's an older
guy. He's about eight years older than I
am. So, this is when the SEAL teams were
first created out of what used to be
called the underwater demolition teams.
And I've got a buddy who's currently a
SEAL. I won't say which team. He's the
son-in-law of a very close friend of
mine.
He does struggle with these issues. My
my older friend from Seal Team 2
>> sleeps like a baby every night. No
problem.
>> I think it's person to person.
>> I think it is
>> right.
>> Yeah.
>> But also they pick certain guys for
certain teams or certain missions.
>> That's right.
>> Who maybe they've
tested under scrutiny and stress. Not to
say, by the way, that sometimes once the
guys are done their career and come
home, they don't bring it home with
them.
>> And they frequently do.
>> Oh, yeah. They frequently do and it's
it's a sad thing to see.
>> Sad, but when when they're in there,
there's something about like reach go
>> mission
>> and that's it.
>> All about the mission.
>> Yeah.
[snorts]
>> You know, glad they're on my side,
though.
>> Yeah, me too.
>> Right.
>> Yep. Got that right.
>> So, they were just And I mean, I've
talked with guys about this before. It
was obviously like a [__] show right
after 9/11. All hands on deck. But
>> basically a lot the way you're
explaining it is a lot of these guys
minus just some of the basic like on the
ground forces we know from the
paramilitary operation that happened
right away in Afghanistan but a lot of
these guys were literally like hey
you're in you're right in you're in
>> they just showed up one day I'm telling
you at
>> at at the counterterrorism center
>> we we more than doubled in size within
two three days.
>> Wow. And then even after that all these
all these special forces guys just
arrived like okay where do we go and
then they started doing their thing.
>> And when how soon was it after the
towers came down that you were first
approached about with the enhanced
interrogation?
>> Oh it was quite some time. Towers came
down in September 11th. We started
bombing Afghanistan in early October.
Um, it was in late October that Mitchell
and Jessen were introduced to George
Tennant at a at a cocktail party. They
pitched the so-called enhanced
interrogation techniques. I think we
signed the contract in January.
Uh, and then we were just waiting to see
who's the first guy we're going to
catch. We caught up with a beta in
March.
>> Yeah, I was going to say we're going to
Pakistan
>> and then I was approached the first week
of May
>> of 2002.
>> Okay. And then you were still in there
for a few years afterwards. I mean,
obviously that is the core part of your
story. We've told that on episode 249
and 250 a bunch before. We don't have to
go through all that.
>> Sure.
>> But
>> that was a disturbing thing that you saw
at CIA.
>> Yeah.
Are there other things now years later
that you're willing to talk about that
you came across that maybe didn't
involve you directly like that where
people were like, "Hey, we want to
actually bring you in on this that you
just found viciously disturbing that
they were doing?"
>> No. Um I all throughout my CIA career I
I worked with people who were doing
their jobs to the highest ethical
standard. It was it was
because it post 911.
>> Mhm.
>> And everybody just kind of went nuts
because this was the greatest
intelligence failure in the CIA's
history and because it was specific to
the counterterrorism center. I think
that's why there was so much that was
sort of revealed to me. But otherwise,
no. In fact, one time
one time I was the notetaker. I was I
was living in Bahrain at the time and um
and uh Ambassador David Ransom just an
absolutely lovely guy, one of the just
finest human beings I've ever worked
for. He was a terrific ambassador and
just a just a really great guy. Um he
would frequently ask me to be the
notetaker in his meetings with the uh
Minister of Foreign Affairs. And the
minister liked me and I liked him. His
English was better than mine, crazy as
that might sound.
>> But um
if there was something sensitive that
the ambassador needed to raise, he would
always mention it to me in the car on
the way to the foreign ministry like,
"Don't let me forget to say X." And I'd
jot down a note. So we went to see the
foreign minister one time and um
and he did forget to say X. And so at
the end of the meeting, these meetings
would go two hours. He turned to me and
he said, "Is there anything else? Is
there anything that I'm forgetting?" And
I said, "Yes, there's the issue with
Ambassador soandso."
And he said, "Oh, that's right." and he
said uh he said to the foreign minister,
"One of my predecessors here in Bahrain,
it's come to my attention
uh is now working for the Bob Dole
campaign and we understand that he may
come out here and ask you for money. It
is illegal for a foreign national to
contribute money to an American
political campaign." So, I just wanted
to give you a heads up. H. And the
minister says, "Oh, he's already been
here. We gave him $50,000. We didn't
realize it was illegal, but he went to
see the Amir." And the Amir gave him
$50,000.
[snorts] So, we get back in the car and
the ambassador says, "Listen, that last
part, don't put that in the cable." He
said, "That's a hornet's nest that I
don't think either one of us want to be
involved involved in." So, I didn't put
it in the cable. You break the cable out
by issue like the ambassador's meeting
with the foreign minister Middle East
peace, the ambassador's meeting with
foreign minister uh the military
agreement with the United States,
ambassadors meeting with the foreign
minister Iran and the threat from you
know whatever. He told me not to write
that.
This was like a month or two or three
before I I left to go back to
headquarters. And I thought about it and
thought about it and thought about it
and I thought, you know, for my own
selfish reasons, what happens if I go
for my next polygraph and they ask me if
I'm aware of a crime that I didn't
report.
>> Then then it's me, then I get fired.
Thank you guys for checking out this
clip. If you haven't already subscribed,
please subscribe and hit the like button
on this video. It is a huge huge help.
And if you'd like to check out this
clip's full podcast episode, that link
is in the description below or right
here. And finally, you can follow me on
Instagram and X by using the links in my
description below.